his could have been a good movie if it didn't have so much that didn't make sense.

When Andy has become comfortable in her new job, she is handing out gifts to all her friends, and they love it. Then all of a sudden, for no reason we ever see, they complain that she "isn't the same old Andy." Just because she is working hard? We never see any evidence of her being anyone different than she was at the beginning. She misses her boyfriend's birthday party because she had to work late? That doesn't mean she's a bad person. And she shows that she's sorry in a very sweet way. But I guess we're supposed to hate her now.

Then one of her girlfriends sees this high-power writer guy make a pass at her, which she quickly snubs. But the friend acts like Andy was into it, reminds her about her boyfriend, and walks off in a huff. It makes no sense--Andy clearly was not into the guy, but her friend acts like she was. Then the way Andy just completely disses Miranda at the end, after they have come to mean something to each other, would have only made sense in the middle of the movie. Here, it comes off as just a convenient--but illogical--way to end the show. Then boyfriend Nate takes her back, despite the fact that they have two new jobs in two different cities; how they are going to stay together isn't even brought up.

Speaking of Nate, he seems like an understanding, regular guy, the kind who would support his girlfriend in whatever she wanted to do. Working like hell in your first job in New York City? It's an incredible opportunity; no way would his character suddenly decide that her career was more important than him. Of course, it probably was just a plot device to make it okay for Andy to fool around with that writer without any guilt, and this tete-a-tete sets up a twist near the end.

This movie seems to want to be an insider's look at the rough-and-tumble world of fashion; I found it unbelievable. Not that I don't believe you have to work for demanding bosses and cut down the number of personal hours in your life; but to think that your friends would abandon you because you're pursuing a dream doesn't ring true. And there is the crux of the problem: are we supposed to be angry with Andy, or Miranda, or the seemingly inhuman fashion world? We're never given a consistent sense of who's the villain here.

In the end, the most unbelievable thing for me about this movie was how Andy was deemed "fat" by the fashion world. Come on; nobody would ever consider Anne Hathaway fat; not even the Devil.