I recently watched this for a second time, having not seen it in many many years and I walked away from it with a rather unusual response. I remember not really liking it the first time around but I couldn't remember why. Perhaps it was less about 'remembering' why and more to do with now I have the language to list exactly why.

Andy (Anne Hathaway) is a young woman newly hired to work as an assistant for a hard-to-please, demanding Editor-In-Chief of a high fashion magazine, Miranda (Meryl Streep). She is like a fish out of water in the office with a poor sense of style and nervous deer in headlights approach to pleasing others. The other professionals around her, namely Nigel (Stanley Tucci) and Emily (Emily Blunt), are sharply dressed, passionate about fashion, and ready to kill the competition in reaching for their aspirations.

Though what Andy really wants to do is be a writer, there's an interaction with Streep's character early on in the film that seems to strike a chord with her and dispel the notion she previously had of thinking her job was shallow and didn't serve much purpose. Miranda says that even people who think they are making a statement by not really caring what clothes they put on each day are directly impacted by her choices and the choices of the other people in meetings with her, effectively kicking Andy into high gear and, in true 2006 fashion, a makeover montage.

Andy's character, along with her boyfriend and best friends all begin the film treating the magazine job like a joke; it's a collective dismissive shrug. But even as Andy becomes more devoted to her job and starts genuinely learning about the fashion industry, her friends and boyfriend don't take kindly to her new look and interest. Not only are they not growing with her, they consistently assert that they should come before her job because she 'only works in fashion' as if that makes everything she does worthless.

Though they enjoy the perks and free gifts that Andy's position affords them, they never truly respect her for it and there is nothing in the film that admonishes their behavior. Instead, it's treated like Andy has fallen off the deep end and is now, by virtue of her job, too shallow to reason with and less impressive than she used to be.

In the midst of horrible treatment from the people in her life, Andy and Miranda end up depending on each other much more vulnerable than before and Andy's impression of the fashion mogul continues to change and grow as she sees the real human woman with deep emotions underneath all of the Prada. While being told by her friends and partner that fashion is an unimportant and unintelligent field, she has the opportunity to see how untrue that is firsthand and, for the first time, willingly prioritizes her position at Miranda's side over the people who keep discrediting her.

To me, it felt like a huge breakthrough for her character and made me really like her. Which, of course, is what made the last twenty minutes of this film just so infuriating to watch. It's this part of the film that I don't think I had the words to describe how I felt watching this for the first time but I certainly do now.

Where this film has the opportunity to follow a woman who doesn't yet see the value in one of the only fields in the world that is women-centric through being placed within it reluctantly and go on a journey of understanding and appreciation, it completely throws it all away. It's so exhausting to watch endless stories play out every day that constantly undermine and underestimate not only the power and value but also the work of women.

We already live in a world where every time there is a spike in the amount of women working in a certain field, the societal value and salary both plummet (for example: nursing, design, housekeeping, biology). If I wanted to be surrounded by people who think that women-dominated spaces are of little interest and easy, I would just walk outside. Instead, it's wormed its way into the subliminal messaging of a film with a target audience of women that's also frequently regarded as one of Meryl Streep's finest performances.

That casual misogyny permeates even the things that are specifically designed with us in mind to be the audience is so disappointing.

After everything Andy experiences in this film, she does end up walking out on the career she spends the entire film building (despite becoming very talented at it, too) and chases after the type of job she wanted at the beginning- a writing position. I have no gripes with this being her choice at all, as I think it suits her character's ambition and she walks into the job interview with a confidence she wouldn't have had without working for Miranda.

What really strikes me as the most disappointing element of the film is the way she returns to both the boyfriend and friends, even after they treated her so poorly purely for the fact that she was a woman engaging in a 'feminine' job. Their sexist behavior is never labeled as such and they never apologize for it- it doesn't even come up.

Instead, they seem to respond to her leaving the magazine with an "oh good, the non-shallow version of you is back" and a hug. Since those characters never valued the work Andy did enough to ask what kind of tasks she had, they really don't know enough about her job to be able to gauge how she's changed (or even if she has) since leaving it, apart from their own assumptions from the outside.

The frivolous nature assigned to her by her own friends and boyfriend over a career they made no effort to learn about will just always sit wrong with me. The ending implies that the writing position she (probably) gets at the end of the movie will actually be worth doing, and it's okay if she needs to work late or miss things in the future because at least she'll be doing something worthwhile.

2006 was definitely a time far from perfection and I think that is undoubtedly reflected in this film, and I give it a lot of grace for that reason. But when I think of this movie, I just get really sad and angry because no one is ever going to make a film called The Devil Wears a Jersey that critiques the societal importance of sports (or cars or guns) or anything men like to spend their pocket change on.

No, that critique is, and has always been, reserved for women alone.