To my knowledge there's never been a movie adaptation of an original Broadway musical split into two separate movies .

I'm pleased to report this second instalment really works living up to to the hype and promise of Wicked Part One.

To be really appreciated it must be seen on the big cinema screen as the extraordinary sets and costume detail plus the emotional impact would be lost on television.

John M. Chu who directed both instalments added to the realism of the movie by insisting on the minimal use of CGI rather opting for the building of massive sets . This included planting 9 million tulips to serve as part of the landscape for Munchkinland, although for wider shots VFX was still used.

I can't add a great deal more praise to Wicked :For Good because I'd be repeating much of my comments for my review of Wicked Part One .

I won't spoil the clever twists and turns that segue into the 1939 Wizard of Oz classic movie except to say when you see the back story of Wicked it opens up an entirely different interpretation to the Judy Garland beloved version based on the L Frank Baume characters, especially Glinda the Good and Elpahaba.

Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande repeat their brilliant interpretations of Elphaba and Glinda in fact I think they are more impressive in Wicked For Good because this story focuses on their emotional relationship .

Wicked 2024 focuses more on introducing us to the characters in their formative years.

Wicked For Good is darker because the Wizard and Madame Morrible's lies and corruption have turned Oz upside down.

Jeff Goldblum and Michelle Yeoh as well as Jonathan Bailey as Fiyero have much more dramatic impact in the second instalment.

Wicked 2024 was nominated for 10 Academy Awards winning 2 for Production and Costume design I suspect Wicked For Good will win more nominations and will win a few more major Oscars.

I love all the songs and orchestration in both movies plus new songs written by the original Wicked composer Stephen Schwartz who penned two new songs the film: "No Place Like Home," sung by Erivo's Elphaba, and "The Girl in the Bubble," sung by Grande's Glinda.

I gave Wicked (2024) a top rating of 10 and I'm giving Wicked For Good the same perfect score it certainly had been worth the wait .